# Introduction
An automobile rental is a vehicle that may be rented for a charge and utilized for a specific amount of time. Getting a rental automobile makes it easier for people to go around when they do not have access to their own vehicle, or they do not own one. A person in need of a car must contact a rental car business and sign a contract for a vehicle. This solution improves client retention while also making car and personnel management easier. The primary goal of Online Car Rental System development is to manage the available service for automobiles as well as its data. All vehicle kinds will be handled by the admin, who will have access to all customer and vehicle data.</br>
Customers must create a profile with a unique username and password in order to access the system’s all services. They can access as a guest and merely see the service types without picking any. Customers can make changes to their account details at any time. The customer has the option of selecting a service type or using the system to search for a car or rent a car, and after selecting the desired automobile service, the staff will generate a report of the car before the customer receives the car. After selecting the required service, the customer must first pay a modest fee to confirm the services, and then choose whether to pay online or in cash after the renting process is completed. Not only that, but the customer also has the choice of viewing, printing, or emailing the receipt.</br>
As well as Customers can interact with the staff and use live chat for more information. Moreover, customers will be able to view all vehicle details and rent a car while also choosing the way of receiving the rented car by either "Drop-off ” or “Pick-up”. It might also be scheduling appointments online, so he doesn't have to wait in line to see the cars and make his selection, but easily by searching for all available car through the system. The system should be able to complete the project quickly and to a high standard.</br>
In addition, it also makes it easier to develop a link between the user and the system. Besides, the staff will also have separate access to the system, allowing them to make modifications such as adding, removing, or updating individual services. Admin also has access to adding customer information and modifying each customer's database information.
