# Preliminary Project Requirements:
The requirements of the online car reservation system will be the main focus of this section. The requirements are an essential component of any system because they specify what the users and stakeholders expect the system to accomplish. As part of scope management, the process of gathering requirements also aids in defining the project's scope. To meet project objectives, such as project functions, it is helpful to define, document, and identify the methods for doing so.
## Functional Requirements:
1. User Account: Each user must create an account with a unique username and password to be registered is system and be able to use all services of the system. Next, log-in successfully to ensure system usage. Also, users can update and manage account information after a successful log-in to their account.
2. Reservation: User can reserve or book a car by renting it using the system. The process requires the user to search for the car model and apply for reservation online then a car report will be generated to view car`s information, and how the user choose the way of receiving the rented car by either "Drop-off ” or “Pick-up” in the report.
3. View and Manage Reservation: System Admin can view all cars reservations with their users and can manage them as required. System Users can view their car reservation and cancel them when needed, also can return the car after being rented so that reservation can be open again for the returned car.
4. Payment: The user is required to pay 50% upfront payment after reserving a car. Then, after returning the car the user pays the remaining payment of renting the car. And a receipt is generated for user to print and save for reference.
5. Customer Service: Users can use self-service portal to look for their FAQs. Also, the system will provide a live chat service with expertise staff to help users 24/7. And, the system will likely ask the user to rate the service received after using it and give feedback to improve system for future developments.
## Non-Functional Requirements:
1. Performance: The system should complete the task in no more than five seconds, and another replicated database server should be available to support read operations for frequent user queries.
2. Usability: The system is built on a familiar interface where the customer can easily be adept with. And learn it within few visits.
3. Modifiability: The developer can easily modify the functionality of the system as well as add new features without causing an effect on other functionality. Modifying and adding new functions to the system will not take more than a day.
4. Security: When the user performs any functionality that require a highly sensitive data such as (payment, register, login …) the system will encrypt the sensitive data of user using a highly secure encryption algorithm. The credit card details will not be saved without user permission.
5. Performance: Customers use live chat where it is supports canned responds, an automated respond to the user’s common quires, which in turn save the customer support times and direct the users to the information they are looking for within time less than 2 minutes.
6. Availability: When a system crashes while in use, during overloaded operation, the system notifies the operators and switches to the next application server and/or database system, then the system will restart in less than 1 minute.
